# racingDrivers


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------


Following are the commands and the instructions to run ANT on the project.
#### Note: build.xml is present in racingDrivers/src folder.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
## Instruction to clean:

####Command: ant clean

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
### How to compile the code?

####Command: ant all

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
### How to run the code?

####Command: ant run -Darg0=input.txt -Darg1=output.txt


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
### Description
Assignment Goal
Apply the design principles you have learned so far to develop software for the given problem.
Team Work
•	You need to work alone on this assignment.
•	You cannot discuss with anyone the design pattern(s) to be used for this assignment.
Programming Language
You are required to use Java.
Compilation Method
•	You are required to use ANT to compile the code.
Policy on sharing of code
•  EVERY line of code that you submit in this assignment should be written by you. Do NOT show your code to any other group. Our code-comparison software can very easily detect similarities.
•  Post to the listserv if you have any questions about the requirements. Do NOT post your code to the listserv asking for help with debugging. However, it is okay to post design/concept questions on programming in Java/C/C++.
Project Description
Problem Statement
Let's race!
Consider N (> 3) race drivers trying to win the grand prix. These drivers are fierce rivals.
Each driver can be in one among 3 states of mind depending on the position of the driver in the race.
For simplicity, let’s assume that during the race the drivers can be in one of the following positions. 
NEW. This list has been updated.
1.	LEADING: Driver.Position < ( 0.3 * Total Number of Drivers )
2.	HOLDING_ON: RoundToClosestInt( 0.3 * Total Number of Drivers ) ≤ Driver.Position < RoundToClosestInt( 0.7 * Total Number of Drivers )
3.	LOSING: Driver.Position ≥ RoundToClosestInt( 0.7 * Total Number of Drivers )
Depending on the position of the driver in the race, he/she is in a different state of mind. These states are defined below.
1.	If a driver is LEADING, then the driver is in a CONFIDENT state of mind.
2.	If a driver is LOSING, then the driver is in RECKLESS state of mind.
3.	If a driver is HOLDING_ON, then the driver is in a CALCULATIVE state of mind.
Note: Remember the drivers are fierce rivals. Hence, if two or more drivers are sharing position, then they are going to be RECKLESS.
Input
Input will be given in the form of a file. The number of drivers would be specified in the first line of the file. Each subsequent line in the input file would specify the distance covered by each driver in each minute. The ith distance corresponds to the ith driver. The format of the input file is shown below.
N
<Distances covered by all N drivers each minute>
0th 1st 2nd ... Nth
0th 1st 2nd ... Nth
0th 1st 2nd ... Nth
...
Note: The input file will be well formatted and will not contain any extra spaces between distances. Also, The line 'Distances covered by all N drivers each minute' will not actually be there in the input file and was added just to explain the contents.
Output
An output file should be generated by the program by the name listed in the command line. For example, you may get the name of the output file as output.txt.
For each line after the first, the program should write the state of mind for each driver in the race. For each line after the first to N, the program should write the state of mind for each driver in the race.
Sample Input/Output
Sample input is as shown below. The input will be doubles with a maximum of 1 digit of precision. Use Java API to parse a Double out of a String, and then extract the double value.
4
1 2 3 4
4 3 2 1
1 1.5 0.5 2
Sample output is as shown below. NEW: This section has been updated.
RECKLESS RECKLESS CALCULATIVE CONFIDENT
RECKLESS RECKLESS RECKLESS RECKLESS
RECKLESS CALCULATIVE RECKLESS CONFIDENT
Design Guidelines
•	There should be a RaceContextClass that holds referenes to the DriverContextClass for each driver. The input should be read by the FileProcessor and passed to the RaceContextClass. It should then invoke a method for that driver on the current state saved in each individual driver's ContextClass. In this method invocation pass the parsed input corresponding to that driver in the new line that was read. Once the current state of each driver processes the input, the change of state, if any, should be set in the RaceContextClass for that driver. 
Note, instances of DriverState should update the state in the DriverContext (context.setState(...)). So, the RaceContextClass just forwards operations to all its driver context instances.
More requirements
•	Decide on what you want to print for Debug values 1 and 2. I have given examples of what to do for Debug values 0, 3, and 4 in the sample MyDebug.java file.
•	From the command line, accept the Debug value as an integer. Check for exceptions when you convert the command line argument from String to integer. Also, validate that the Debug value is in the range 0-4.
•	An example of the command line arguments we will use for grading is the following: input.txt output.txt 0
Code Organization
•	NEW: Sample MyLogger class is here.
•	Your directory structure should be the following:
•	 -firstName_lastName_assign_2
•	   ---racingDrivers
•	   ----- README.txt
•	     ----- src
•	          ----- build.xml
•	          ---racingDrivers
•	       	   ----------driver
•	           -----------------Driver.java
•	           ----------util
•	   	   -----------------[Whatever interfaces and class you need]
•		   -----------------MyLogger.java
•	           ----------driverStates
•	       	   -----------------DriverContextI [interface for Context]
•		   -----------------DriverStateI [interface for State]
•	      	   -----------------[Whatever interfaces and classes you need to implement the States]
•	           ----------other packages and classes that you need


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
### Justification
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
#### Pattern used is State Pattern.
#### I used a TreeMap instead of a HashMap as a TreeMap stores data in a sorted order. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
### Logic
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
#### I made use of an ArrayList to store the intial driver data i.e number of miles travelled by each driver.
#### I parse throught the input file and keep updating the list with the values.
#### Then I made use of a TreeMap to store driver data using miles as the key and store the positions of the drivers in a list. So if two or more drivers are on the same position, their state will be set to RECKLESS. 
#### Whenever a new line is read, the new miles are added to the previous miles and then the position of the drivers are updated. 
#### The above functionalities are stored in the RaceContext file.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
### Not Working Piece of Code
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
#### I tried working on the MyLogger file, but I could not get it to work. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
### References
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
#### https://www.tutorialspoint.com/design_pattern/state_pattern.html

//The tokenizer concept
#### https://javarevisited.blogspot.com/2015/12/how-to-split-comma-separated-string-in-java-example.html

//Concept of Collections.reverseOrder
#### https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5894818/how-to-sort-arraylistlong-in-decreasing-order

//Iteration through a TreeMap
#### https://beginnersbook.com/2014/07/how-to-iterate-treemap-in-reverse-order-in-java/

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
### Academic Honesty statement:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

"I have done this assignment completely on my own. I have not copied
it, nor have I given my solution to anyone else. I understand that if
I am involved in plagiarism or cheating an official form will be
submitted to the Academic Honesty Committee of the Watson School to
determine the action that needs to be taken. "

Date: 06/28/2019.
